Docs/rearchitect (#314)
namehash/ensnode: README.md

# ENSNode

> > a multichain ENS indexer for the ENS community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENSNode is the multichain indexer for ENSv2.
```

So far prefer this framing / branding.

  - ✅ Basenames (`.base.eth`)
  - ✅ Linea Names (`.linea.eth`)
  - 🚧 + more
- Built on Ponder
  - ✅ Rapid Indexing & Backfill
    - 10x faster than ENS Subgraph
    - Mainnet Backfill: **7 hours** on M1 Macbook
  - ✅ More efficient than ENS Subgraph
    - 35x less disk space and 35% fewer RPC credits [[source]](https://ponder.sh/docs/why-ponder)
  - ✅ End-to-end type safety
  - ✅ Automatically reconciles chain reorganizations
  - ✅ Deploy anywhere with Node.js & Docker
- Designed for web developers
  - ✅ [use ENSNode with ENSjs](https://www.ensnode.io/ensnode/usage/with-ensjs/)
  - ✅ [GraphQL APIs](https://ensnode.io/ensnode/usage/apis/)
  - ✅ [Live Queries & React Hooks](https://ponder.sh/docs/query/client)
  - ✅ Custom APIs for your app
- [1:1 Subgraph Compatibility](https://www.ensnode.io/ensnode/reference/subgraph-compatibility/)
  - ✅ [100% data equivalency](https://github.com/namehash/ens-subgraph-transition-tools) as compared to Subgraph
  - ✅ 100% ensjs test suites passing via [ens-test-env](https://github.com/namehash/ens-test-env)
  - 🚧 100% ens-app-v3 test suites passing via [ens-test-env](https://github.com/namehash/ens-test-env)
- Own your ENSNode index

>   - ✅ [Deploy ENSNode to your own cloud](https://ensnode.io/ensnode/deploying/) for customized uptime guarantees and private queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - ✅ [Deploy ENSNode to your own cloud](https://ensnode.io/ensnode/deploying/) for controlling your own uptime guarantees and private queries
```

## Why Index ENS? Why ENSNode?

> The ENS protocol manages the state of names across multiple chains and even off-chain databases. Querying this data from an RPC endpoint—not to mention querying multiple chains—quickly becomes difficult and inefficient and results in a poor user experience. For example, if you wanted to list all of a user's owned names, you'd have to make a request to ETH Mainnet, Base, Linea, `.cb.id`, `.uni.eth`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ENS protocol enables resolution of names across multiple chains and even off-chain data sources. ENS smart contracts optimize for some operations, but not others. For example, if you wanted to list all of a user's owned names, there's no practical way to do this through ENS contracts.
```

It's practically impossible to get the list of names owned by an address through these contracts. It would require essentially infinite requests, not just one per chain / registrar.

> An indexer aggregates and reorganizes the state of ENS to make queries like that efficient and convenient:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An indexer aggregates and reorganizes the representation of ENS's state to make many important queries like that possible, efficient, and convenient:
```

```graphql
# get all of a user's domains by address
query Domains($adress: String!) {
  domains(where: { owner: $address }) {
    id
    name
    ...
  }
}
```

> Historically the ENS Subgraph has served this purpose, but its limitations have become clear as the ENS protocol grows. ENSNode is a modern, multichain indexer for ENS. It supports backwards-compatible Subgraph queries and sets the stage for supporting [ENSv2](https://roadmap.ens.domains/roadmap/), in particular Namechain and the growing set of off-chain ENS names (like `.cb.id` and `.uni.eth`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically the ENS Subgraph has served this purpose, but the Subgraph's limitations are increasingly severe as the ENS protocol grows. For example: The ENS Subgraph can only index a single chain at a time (ex: mainnet). Given how the majority of ENS names are now issued off of mainnet, only a small percentage of ENS names can be indexed by the ENS Subgraph. This issue will only grow more severe with the launch of ENSv2 and Namechain.

ENSNode is a modern, multichain indexer for ENS. It supports backwards-compatible Subgraph queries and sets the stage for supporting [ENSv2](https://roadmap.ens.domains/roadmap/), in particular Namechain and the growing set of off-chain ENS names (like `.uni.eth` and `.cb.id`).
```

## Documentation

Documentation for the ENSNode suite of apps is available at [ensnode.io](https://ensnode.io).

## Contributions

We welcome community contributions and feedback—please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Sponsors

> NameHash and ENSNode has received generous support from [ENS DAO](https://ensdao.org/) and [Gitcoin](https://www.gitcoin.co/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NameHash has received generous support from the [ENS DAO](https://ensdao.org/) and [Gitcoin](https://www.gitcoin.co/).
```
